2/6/15

I created all of my character files that I spent several weeks on. I recently learned how to use eclipse, and during that time I created several files that are not useful to the project, so I apologize if some random files appear on the GitHub screen. I watched several tutorials online as to how to make a 2D plat former, so I was able to make a constructor and import tons of java things that I created, such as a character appearance and backgrounds. I also created my “main” method for my project, which is currently not very large, but seems to compile and has a substantial amount of variables. I also set the frame rate for the project, which I believe is 120fps in a standard window. Currently I am having a problem with my project because I accidentally copied several files that I didn’t need to, so I will spend this weekend updating the GitHub project webpage with my current files.

2/13/15

This week I added and removed a few things. On my older version from last week, my project imported several files that I had stored as part of the project. However, those files were not all completed, and some were unnecessary for the project, so right now I removed them and placed them in a new txt file called "Importing code for 20% project." When the time comes where I will actually have a use for those files, I will re-import them into my project. I also commented a few things, including some state variables and an extendable class that is not yet in use. The last thing I did was add about 4 short methods to my project. They basically set-up the game by returning the game in its base design, reseting the screen, etc... I also have one method that returns the screen width /window size, although I'm not sure if that is necessary for the users.

2/20/15

Sometime during the week, I realized that my files had been copying themselves (probably due to a mistake by me where I kept saving the same thing multiple times in different areas). Thus, I have several hundred file/folders/programs related to my project, when I really only need to have one hundred or so things (if that). So I spent most of Friday deleating overweening material or duplicates of files. I finally was able to deleate MANY excessive, unwanted files from the project folder, so I am left with a much smaller project size (making all transaction quicker and less confusing). Unfortunately, I already imported objects from their original location, but now I will have to re-import everything since just about all the objects have been pulled from their original location and moved somewhere else. I did learn how to add stuff to BlueJ library, making it much easier for me to import anything in the future, as there will be less errors. Overall, this week wasn't very productive code-wise, but I was able to simplify my project into something that I now actually understand how to work with!

2/27/15

FINALLY!!! I finally got all my import codes to work. After going through all and deleating all the repeated/excess files, my teacher helped me create a library in BlueJ. Here I was able to import code directly from my bin file to the project, so now half of my project compiles! Today, I added three things: start method which starts up the program; a stop method that stops the program; and a run method that runs the program (allowing it to start and stop upon command). I have been working nearly every weekend and several days a week, so I am fairly close to being done with the project base code. After that, I will need to fine tune all the code so that it compiles, and then see if it runs how I desire. I have the character files and map design ready, but I will probably make more changes to simply the leftover mess.

3/6/15

This past week I have been spending a few hours a night watching tutorials to create a method called render. This method is responsible for generating images such as geometry, displayed text, etc... This definately consumed most of my time this week, but I believe it works as it compiled. I also added an update method which simply updates things displayed on the screen. The last method I created was the main method, which is somewhat coded but does not work. I sort of squeezed in that method last night to make my project look a bit nicer :). Currently my project is 229 lines long, which may not seem like too much, but there is a bit more to it. I doubt that I will have more than 250 lines of code in my non-stop class, but if you count all the coding I have done for the character and backgrounds, then I have WAY more code. I hope that my deliverable will be correct, as I believe I said that I would have the character created by this week's deadline (which I do). 

3/13/15

The progress this week was moderately slow, however I was able to accomplish something I haven't been able to do up until now... my project finally compiled with no syntax errors!! I guess I wasn't really that far off to begin with, because all I had to do was alter about 5 lines of code from what I had last week and it compiled. A couple things that I will need to fix are: main(), MenuSelection.selection, and PauseSelection.selection. The main method doesn't seem like it will need a lot of work done to fix it, but right now I've just commented it out so I don't have to deal with its errors. As for MenuSelection and PauseSelection, I am constantly recieving errors about both of those commands. The error message reads that I have no class for either of those codes, when in reality I do. I have created class files for both, but I am not going to worry about it for now. I also added Java.doc to a couple of my methods, just so I know what my methods are doing.

3/20/15

So the game compiles and I was able to work a few more lines of code back into the project that were previously commented out. Unfortunately, every time I try and test the game, it breaks and gives me a bunch of error messages... which is definately something I need to fix. I heard from several people that I should be using Eclipse instead of BlueJ to do all of this, so I think that's what I'll start doing. I know that most of the tutorials I watched were performed in Eclipse, so maybe I will spend some time to learn that program if it means getting my project done. Since both BlueJ and Eclipse support Java, I shouldn't have a problem moving all my coding to Eclipse. The only other things I will need to do is re-create a library for the files in the bin folder, and alter the code a bit to work in Eclipse.

4/10/15

With the help of my friend Nick Baringham, I made a better layout for my project. Instead of one class that imports everything, I created several class files so it wasn't all condensed in one class file. Nick instructed me to create folders on BlueJ's main page, so I can organize things better. I like the idea, but I am still learning how that works, as the only project where I have dealt with folders like that before was Project 22 from my Computer Science class. I also gave my elevator pitch today, and I think I have sealed the deal!! Other than that, progression has been slow and I have been slowly solving all the errors I get when I test it. Mainly all the errors I get now have to do with sound-related things.

4/17/15

Found some sprites online to use for my character. I spend an hour or so in the Paint application on Windows creating a background to use for my game.It is fairly simple, just a standard box with an assortment of colors, nothing fancy. My character was a random sprite that I found online. Seems to be from an anime or RPG game. As for the fire ball, I found a small orange sphere online and chose that to be the fire ball. Then I went into pain, and copy and pasted the ball a bunch of times.Then I erased the center area to form a ring with round bumps everywhere, simulating an explosion. I may decided to create a better fireball/explosion in the future, but for testing purposes this seems to work alright.


4/24/15

Whoop whoop!! Finally got the game to run! After creating a main menu screen with a play option and an exit option (to play/exit the game), I completed my intial run. Using the arrow keys and space bar the player can select the option to play the game, and they can then move the character around the map. The space bar actives a fire ball which is randomly thrown in any direction (I will need to fix this). When the fireball reaches a certain distance from the player it explodes and transforms into the ring explosion that I described in my last update. Currently there is no sound in the game, but I plan to improve it later next week. I will be away at an Internation DECA Competition in Florida, so I am unsure if I will be able to work on it next week, but I will definately try. 


5/1/15


I had a pretty slow week this time around. After coming home from my trip I only had 2 days to work on the project, so you can imagine I didn't do all that much. I found an mp3 online that plays some techno-ish music, and I just imported it into the project. I also managed to find an explosion noise online which will activate when the fireball explodes. I believe that there is also a sound for when the player casts the fireball, but don't quote me on that because I will have to double check. I realize this isn't a very long DevJournal but seeing as I was out of town for almost a week I wasn't able to get a whole lot done. I plan on testing the project more and trying to break it in order to fix it. I will also try to fix the random directional movement of the fireball. 

